# Meeting of TC39-TG4 - Main Track - 2023-07-27

## Folks

| Name | GH Username | TLA | Affiliation |
| ---- | ----------- | --- | ----------- |

## Agenda

- We are chartered – yay!
- Recast this as "feature track"?
- Summarize takeaways from review of current approaches
- ignoreList – what is it and should we add it to the standard?
- What does the names array do today?
- Review Holger's variable name proposal

## Notes

- Reviewing Holger's proposal
  - Jaro: DWARF gets really complicated here. Let's avoid getting too complicated.
  - Holger: Let's avoid arbitrary restrictions here
- Covered being chartered
- Agreed on recasting as “Features Track” - Will follow up with calendar invite
- Current approaches are messy and incomplete and adding information to sourcemaps will help quite a bit. Chrome has done a good job but is mostly missing the scope information. They try to recreate the source scope from the generated scope. Google user research has shown a lot of people not using sourcemaps for production debugging.
- ignoreList - Chrome uses the current ignoreList (https://github.com/tc39/source-map-rfc/issues/17) primarily for hiding certain frames from stack traces. Mozilla is also implementing it (https://firefox-source-docs.mozilla.org/devtools-user/debugger/how_to/ignoring_sources/index.html#ignore-third-party-scripts) but it’s still unclear what it exactly means to ignoreList something. Is it just controlling what gets seen in the debugger or would browsers change the actual stacktrace?
  - Should follow up with post-hoc tools. Do they intend to use it at all and, if so, what would be the implication?
  - Boma mentioned the importance of still giving users access to the ignored scripts. It’s a nice quality of life improvement to be able to “hide” them but some users want them. Firefox blacklists the scripts in the ignore list, meaning you cannot add breakpoints or step through those files. Google allows this still.
  - Seems like it merits being added to the spec. We don’t have to say exactly what browsers will do with this information but it would be good to explain to users that they have an option to send an ignore list.
  - Worth making a note when we add to the spec that the ignored files are never removed from the actual stack trace but the browser UIs might hide or show them based on a user toggle.
- Would be really nice to find someone who works on Safari / Webkit devtools to join our meetings. Boma might know someone and will reach out
- Names array (https://github.com/tc39/source-map-rfc/issues/6) - Chrome only uses it for local variables and in some capacity for functions.
  - As we move to a new system we’ll still want to describe in the spec the current system and what they are used for.
    - Chrome, for example, uses it to resolve local variable names. They also look at functions to see if there are left parentheses for the parameter list and, if so, they use the names array for function names. Usage of source map 'names' in Chrome DevTools
    - Mozilla builds scope information with client side parsing (of the original source file) with Babel. At the moment they are not using the names array. They are really interested in moving away from the client side parsing / generating / building scope information and would love to move to using the source map.
    - Interesting note: both Chrome and Firefox have to “re-parse” the compiled code since 1. You can’t use an optimizing compiler because it will change/remove scopes and 2. It would be too expensive to pass the entire AST back and forth.
    - At Replay.io They use the names array to increase confidence. After looking up variable information from the AST, they compare it to the information in the names array.
    - It would be interesting to follow up with generators like closure compiler and JetBrains. JetBrains specifically uses the names array for functions and methods.
